WEB SECRETARY Version 1.6.0


1. OVERVIEW

Web Secretary is a web page monitoring software. However, it goes beyond the
normal functionalities offered by such software. Not only does it detect
changes based on content analysis (instead of date/time stamp or simple
textual comparison), it will email the changed page to you WITH THE NEW
CONTENT HIGHLIGHTED!

Web Secretary is actually a suite of two Perl scripts called websec and
webdiff. websec retrieves web pages and email them to you based on a URL
list that you provide. webdiff compares two web pages (current and archive)
and creates a new page based on the current page but with all the
differences highlighted using a predefined color.

Personally, I put Web Secretary on crontab to monitor a large number of web
pages. When the highlighted pages are delivered to me, I use procmail to
sort them out and file them into another folder. Sometimes, when I am busy,
I will not have time to accessing the web for a few days. However, with Web
Secretary, I can always access the "archive" that it has created for me at
my own leisure.


2. DEPENDENCIES

Web Secretary should be able to run on all Unix systems with a Perl
interpreter (and LWP module) installed. At present, it has only been tested
on Linux. Users report that it works on Windows too.


3. INSTALLATION AND CONFIGURATION

Installing Web Secretary is easy.

- Un-tar the distribution. The files will be uncompressed into a directory
  called websec/.

- Change directory to websec/.

- Edit the first lines in websec and webdiff to reflect the actual location
  of the Perl interpreter on your system.

- Edit the URL list called url.list. Please refer to SECTION 5 for more
  information on this.

- Edit the ignore keyword/URL file "ignore.list". Please refer to SECTION 6
  and 7 for more information on this file.


4. USAGE 

You can run Web Secretary whenever you want to monitor the changes in your
URL list by typing 'websec'.

Alternatively, you can add Web Secretary to your crontab and run it on a
regular basis (eg. daily). You can even have different URL list files and
run them at different intervals (eg. hourly, daily, weekly etc.)

It goes without saying that you can use Web Secretary to monitor its own
homepage so that you can be informed of the latest news and updates.

Web Secretary is available at:   http://www.nongnu.org/websec/


5. DIGEST

This feature is contributed by Matti Airas:

> Hi,

> I noticed a small bug in websec. Since I'm using a text-based MUA, I'm
> not interested in getting the HTML pages, but only the notifications.
> However, on line 214 the recipient email address is $email, not
> $emailLink.

> Also, since I found the separate notification mails inconvenient, I
> implemented a new configuration variable "Digest = false|true", which
> makes the notifications to come in a single email.

> The modified file is attached to this mail. I hope you find it useful.

> --
> Matti Airas


6. INSTALLING LWP

Websec requires the Perl module 'LWP' to work. The quickest way to install
this module is to type:

> perl -MCPAN -e 'install Bundle::LWP'

at the command line.

Thanks to Jeff for contributing this tip!


7. HISTORY

1.7 - Under construction

    * Add MailFrom, to set the address from which the mail will appear to come.
      (Thanks to Adam Stanley)

    * Added URL to the mail subject, to simplify jumping to a changed page from
	  the mail folder.

    * Added an EmailError option to disable sending error messages. This was
	  requested numerous times (Bug#3498 on Savannah), this fix is based on a
	  patch from Peter Bieringer.

    * Add man pages for url.list and ignore.list, removed their documentation
	  from the README file and moved it to the files themselves for easier
	  reference.

1.6.0 - Released on 05 May 2003

* Added DateFMT feature to set Date Formats in mail subjects.

* Add to EmailLink the local file system link so that a user can open it in his
  browser.

* Add Program option to open a program on changed link instead of mailing
  notification.

* Multiple bug fixes.

1.5.0 - Released on 02 May 2003

* Added UserAgent option to control the user agent sent by the web client. This
  enables access to websites which lockdown unknown browsers.

* Enabled the user to run websec from the current directory without the
  multi-user ~/.websec/ setup, the multi-user setup is the default unless you
  run websec from a directory with the url.list file.

* Allow using environment variables in config file, this enables things like:
  Email = ${USER}@example.com

* Moved the manpages to pod and into the files, this enables fancy options such
  as -help and -man to work and reduces duplication of effort.

1.4.0 - Released on 31 Oct 2002

* Various changes that came from the Debian package

1.3.4 - Released on 6 Jun 2000

* Added tip on how to install LWP in READE. Thanks to Jeff for contributing
  this info!

* Fixed a bug with $emailLink and added digest format. Thanks to Matti Airas
  for contributing this!

1.3.3 - Released on 31 Jan 2000

* Added MIME-Version header to email sent. Thanks to Joe Rumsey for pointing
  this out. This fixes problems under certain mailers, where messages are
  treated as plain text instead of HTML.

1.3.2 - Released on 2 Dec 1999

* Added <CODE> as a recognized tag.

* Added the ability to send updated page to multiple recipients.

* Added the ability to send URL link instead of entire page to recipients.
  Check "EmailLink" tag.

* "Alexander Lazic" <al@eunet.at> suggested using strftime instead of the
  Unix command "date". This has been fixed.

1.31 - Released on 17 Apr 1999

* Volker Stampa contributed some code to allow websec to work with proxies
  that require authentication.

1.3  - Released on 20 Mar 1999

* Trevor Boicey suggested allowing the use of arbitrary HTML colors in the
  "-hicolor" parameter of webdiff. This feature has been included.

* Webdiff had some problems with a tag of this nature: <A HREF="xxx <yyy>">,
  first found in the ZDNET series of web sites.  This has been fixed.

* A new "ignore URL" feature has been included. This allows certain
  hyperlinks sections in a web page to be skipped during webdiff processing.

* All ignore keywords and URLs have been consolidated into one file. 

1.22 - Released on 13 Jan 1999

* A small shell script has been included to "rollback" the files in the
  archive directory for one session.

* Proxy settings can now be supplied via the "http_proxy" environment
  variable. However, the "Proxy" parameter will take precedence over the
  environment variable.

* When checking for short and long tokens (based on the Tmin and Tmax
  parameters), any mangled HTML tags are first stripped from the token before
  word count is done.  Therefore, word count is done on the "plain text"
  version of the token.

* When checking for ignore keywords, the token which possibly contains
  mangled HTML tags is first checked. Then it is stripped of any mangled
  HTML tags and checked again. This is cater for cases where the mangled HTML
  tag precedes or follows an actual word without any spacing. Hence the
  entire string is treated as one word, and will fail to match any of the
  ignore keywords.

1.21 - Released on 1 Jan 1999 (Happy New Year!)

* Made minor modification to try downloading any URL up to 3 times before
  giving up. I did not find it necessary to include this as a parameter,
  so it was hard-coded.

1.2  - Released on 25 Dec 1998 (Merry Christmas!)

* Rewrote Web Secretary to use the LWP module in Perl for HTTP retrieval and
  email transmission. Hence, it is no longer necessary to have 'lynx' and
  'metasend' installed on your system in order to use Web Secretary.

* Since Web Secretary was rewritten to use the LWP module (instead of lynx),
  for HTTP retrieval, I had to add a 'Proxy' parameter for folks (like
  myself) who are behind a firewall.

* Added the 'Tmin' parameter to ignore short tokens when highlighting
  differences. This is useful because certain sites have tokens containing
  one or two words which change constantly but are uninteresting to track.

* Added the 'Tmax' parameter to prevent long tokens from being processed by
  the ignore keywords filter. This was included because certain sites have
  tokens containing the current day/month etc. which I want to filter off. 
  But at the same time, I do not want to filter off long paragraphs that
  contain these words.

1.11 - Released on 10 Oct 1998

* Minor modification to the comparison algorithm so that it won't be fooled
  by extra spaces in the tokens.

1.1  - Released on 25 Sep 1998

* Improved the detection algorithm for multiple consecutive mangled HTML
  tags so that they will not be incorrectly highlighted.

* Support for Javascript and stylesheet tags so that they will not be
  incorrectly highlighted.

1.0  - First released on 4 Sep 1998.

The idea for this tool originated from a software package called Tierra
Highlights for the PC (http://www.tierra.com). I tried it out for a while
and found it to be extremely useful.  However, like most PC tools, it was
closely tied to the PC that you installed the software on. If you are
working on some other computer, you will not be unable to access the pages
being monitored. At that time, I was already convinced that email is the
best "push" platform the world has ever seen, so why not deliver the changed
pages via email?

I bounced the idea around for a while amongst friends and colleagues, and
when I could not find any sucker to write this for me :-), I wrote the first
version in a crazy moment of unrest using shell script. However, this first
version was not very configurable, so I quickly wrote the second version in
Perl.

So far, however, the program does nothing but retrieve pages and email them
to me. I quickly added a quick hack to do a diff between an archive page
and the current page before deciding whether to email the page, but the
scheme proved too brittle for detecting changes in most cases.

I lived with this scheme for a while. Finally, lunacy got the better of me.
I figured out a quick and dirty way of doing what Tierra Highlights does,
and actually thought I could implement the whole idea in one day. It took
two days instead, and the initial version sucked like hell and failed
miserably on many pages. However, you should have seen the grin on my face
when it highlighted PC Magazine and PC Week properly. :-)

Like most programmers who are crazy enough to think that they can "do this
thing in one day", I spent the next two weeks feverishly debugging the
project. Everyday, I will add new pages to the URL list, and debug those
that failed to be highlighted. Finally, I have something which I use on a
daily basis now and is prepared to share with the rest of the world.


8. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

I would like to thank the GNU people. I don't know them personally, but they
have blessed us with free and great tools such as Linux, gcc, emacs, Perl,
fetchmail etc. which I now use on a daily basis. In the trails of their
selfless spirit, I will also like to share Web Secretary in the same way,
and hope many people besides me find it useful.

I would also like to thank Chng Tiak Jung, a friend and mentor who inspires
me to learn at least one new thing everyday. I am sure if he continues at
his current pace, I will never be able to catch up with him!

The article "Some Simpler Applications Using LWP" (http://webreview.com/wr/
pub/97/12/12/bookshelf/index.html) by Clinton Wong in webreview.com inspired
me to modify Web Secretary to use the LWP library for HTTP retrieval and
email transmission.

